OSDOCS-8646: Rewriting introduction to networking (ContentX) (#87228)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-understanding-networking-dns-example.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/understanding-networking.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-understanding-networking-dns-example_{context}"]
= Example: DNS use case

For this example, a front-end application is running in one set of pods and a back-end service is running in another set of pods. The front-end application needs to communicate with the back-end service. You create a service for the back-end pods that gives it a stable IP address and DNS name. The front-end pods use this DNS name to access the back-end service regardless of changes to individual pod IP addresses.

By creating a service for the back-end pods, you provide a stable IP and DNS name, `backend-service.default.svc.cluster.local`, that the front-end pods can use to communicate with the back-end service. This setup would ensure that even if individual pod IP addresses change, the communication remains consistent and reliable. 

> .Example of configuring front-end pods to communicate with a back-end service using DNS

Reviewer: Misplaced heading?

Author: Agreed. That heading was a peer review suggestion but I don't like it, either.

. Create the back-end service. 

.. Deploy the back-end pods.
+
[source, yaml]

> ----
>    apiVersion: apps/v1
>    kind: Deployment
>    metadata:
>      name: backend-deployment

Reviewer: Should this and the following two YAMLs have the spacing removed so that folks can copy and paste more easily?
```suggestion
----
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
    name: backend-deployment
```

     replicas: 3
     selector:
       matchLabels:
         app: backend
     template:
       metadata:
         labels:
           app: backend
       spec:
         containers:
           - name: backend-container
             image: your-backend-image
             ports:
               - containerPort: 8080
----

.. Define a service to expose the back-end pods.
+
[source, yaml]
----
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Service
   metadata:
     name: backend-service
   spec:
     selector:
       app: backend
     ports:
       - protocol: TCP
         port: 80
         targetPort: 8080
----

. Create the front-end pods.

.. Define the front-end pods.
+
[source, yaml]
----
  apiVersion: apps/v1
   kind: Deployment
   metadata:
     name: frontend-deployment
     labels:
       app: frontend
   spec:
     replicas: 3
     selector:
       matchLabels:
         app: frontend
     template:
       metadata:
         labels:
           app: frontend
       spec:
         containers:
           - name: frontend-container
             image: your-frontend-image
             ports:
               - containerPort: 80
----

.. Apply the pod definition to your cluster.

[source,terminal]
----

> oc apply -f frontend-deployment.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc apply -f frontend-deployment.yaml
```

Author: fixed

> .. Apply the pod definition to your cluster.
> 
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> oc apply -f frontend-deployment.yaml
> ----

Reviewer: Not rendering correctly in the preview.
```suggestion
.. Apply the pod definition to your cluster.
+
[source,terminal]
----
oc apply -f frontend-deployment.yaml
----
```

Author: done

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/understanding-networking.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-understanding-networking-dns-example_{context}"]
= Example: DNS use case

For this example, a front-end application is running in one set of pods and a back-end service is running in another set of pods. The front-end application needs to communicate with the back-end service. You create a service for the back-end pods that gives it a stable IP address and DNS name. The front-end pods use this DNS name to access the back-end service regardless of changes to individual pod IP addresses.

> By creating a service for the back-end pods, you provide a stable IP and DNS name (`backend-service.default.svc.cluster.local`) that the front-end pods can use to communicate with the back-end service. This setup would ensure that even if individual pod IP addresses change, the communication remains consistent and reliable. To do so, complete the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By creating a service for the back-end pods, you provide a stable IP and DNS name, `backend-service.default.svc.cluster.local`, that the front-end pods can use to communicate with the back-end service. This setup would ensure that even if individual pod IP addresses change, the communication remains consistent and reliable. To do so, complete the following steps:
```

Author: thanks

. Create the back-end service. 

.. Deploy the back-end pods.
+
[source, yaml]
----
   apiVersion: apps/v1
   kind: Deployment
   metadata:
     name: backend-deployment
     labels:
       app: backend
   spec:
     replicas: 3
     selector:
       matchLabels:
         app: backend
     template:
       metadata:
         labels:
           app: backend
       spec:
         containers:
           - name: backend-container
             image: your-backend-image
             ports:
               - containerPort: 8080
----

.. Define a service to expose the back-end pods.
+
[source, yaml]
----
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Service
   metadata:
     name: backend-service
   spec:
     selector:
       app: backend
     ports:
       - protocol: TCP
         port: 80
         targetPort: 8080
----

> . Deploy the front-end pods.

Author: done, thanks

+

> [source, yaml]

Reviewer 2: Consider subheading, such as ".Example of..."

Author: done, thanks

----
  apiVersion: apps/v1
   kind: Deployment
   metadata:
     name: frontend-deployment
     labels:
       app: frontend
   spec:
     replicas: 3
     selector:
       matchLabels:
         app: frontend
     template:
       metadata:
         labels:
           app: frontend
       spec:
         containers:
           - name: frontend-container
             image: your-frontend-image
             ports:
               - containerPort: 80
----

. Configure the front-end to communicate with the back-end. 
+

> In your front-end application code, use the DNS name of the back-end service to send requests. For example, if your front-end application needs to fetch data from the back-end, you might have code like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your front-end application code, use the DNS name of the back-end service to send requests. For example, if your front-end application needs to fetch data from the back-end pod, your application might include the following code:
```

Author: thanks
